Aflores plymouth (#234)
osisoft/Edge-Data-Store-Docs: content/sds/sds-views.md

# Stream views

> Stream views provide flexibility in the use of SdsTypes. While you cannot actually change the properties of SdsTypes themselves, use the stream views feature to create a view of a selected SdsStream that appears as if you had changed the SdsType on which it is based. Create a stream view by choosing a source and target type. Then, create a set of mappings between properties of those two types. Using a stream view to leverage existing SdsType properties is preferable to creating a new SdsType because the SdsStream that is based on the SdsType continues to function with its previously archived stream data intact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stream views provide flexibility in the use of `SdsTypes`. While you cannot actually change the properties of `SdsTypes` themselves, use the stream views feature to create a view of a selected `SdsStream` that appears as if you had changed the `SdsType` on which it is based. Create a stream view by choosing a source and target type. Then, create a set of mappings between properties of those two types. Using a stream view to leverage existing `SdsType` properties is preferable to creating a new `SdsType` because the `SdsStream` that is based on the `SdsType` continues to function with its previously archived stream data intact.
```

See the impact of the stream view on a stream either in an ad hoc manner through a `GET` method or by assigning the stream view to a stream with a `PUT` method.

> An SdsStreamView provides a way to map stream data requests from one data type to another. You can apply a stream view to any read or `GET` operation. SdsStreamView is used to specify the mapping between source and target types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An SdsStreamView provides a way to map stream data requests from one data type to another. You can apply a stream view to any read or `GET` operation. `SdsStreamView` is used to specify the mapping between source and target types.
```

## Stream view fields and properties

The following table shows the SdsStreamView fields. Fields that are not included are reserved for internal SDS use. For more information on search limitations, see [Search in SDS](xref:sdsSearching).

| Property     | Type                   | Optionality | Searchable | Details |
|--------------|------------------------|-------------|------------|---------|
| `Id`           | String                 | Required    | Yes        |Identifier for referencing the stream view |
| `Name`         | String                 | Optional    | Yes        |Friendly name |
| `Description` | String                 | Optional    | Yes        |Description text |
| `SourceTypeId` | String                 | Required    | Yes        |Identifier of the SdsType of the SdsStream |
| `TargetTypeId` | String                 | Required    | Yes        |Identifier of the SdsType to convert events to |
| `Properties`   | IList\<SdsStreamViewProperty\> | Optional    | Yes, with limitations  |Property level mapping |

> **Note:**  SdsStreamViewProperty objects are not searchable. Only the SdsStreamViewProperty's SdsStreamView is searchable by its `Id`, `SourceTypeId`, and `TargetTypeId`. These are used to return the top level SdsStreamView object when searching. The same is true for nested SdsStreamViewProperties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:**  `SdsStreamViewProperty` objects are not searchable. Only the `SdsStreamViewProperty`'s `SdsStreamView` is searchable by its `Id`, `SourceTypeId`, and `TargetTypeId`. These are used to return the top level `SdsStreamView` object when searching. The same is true for nested `SdsStreamViewProperties`.
```

| Enumeration types          	| No            	| No                     	| Yes               	| Yes                        	| No                 |
| Nullable enumeration types 	| No            	| No                     	| Yes               	| Yes                        	| No                 |
| Object types               	| No            	| No                     	| No                	| No                         	| Yes*               |

\* Mappable if `typeId` matches between the source and the target type

## `SdsStreamViewProperty`

The SdsStreamView properties collection provides detailed instructions for mapping of event properties. Each `SdsStreamViewProperty` in the properties collection defines the mapping of an event’s property. `SdsStreamView` properties are required only when property mapping is not straightforward. Additionally, if you do not want a type property mapped, it is not necessary to create an `SdsStreamView` property for it.

The following table shows the required and optional `SdsStreamViewProperty` fields.

| Property | Type    | Optionality | Details |
|----------|---------|-------------|---------|

> | `SourceId` | String  | Required    | Identifier of the `SdsTypeProperty` from the source SdsType Properties list |
> | `TargetId` | String  | Required    | Identifier of the `SdsTypeProperty` from the target SdsType Properties list |
> | `SdsStreamView`  | SdsStreamView | Optional    | Additional mapping instructions for derived types. Supports nested properties |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SourceId` | String  | Required    | Identifier of the `SdsTypeProperty` from the source `SdsType` Properties list |
| `TargetId` | String  | Required    | Identifier of the `SdsTypeProperty` from the target `SdsType` Properties list |
| `SdsStreamView`  | SdsStreamView | Optional    | Additional mapping instructions for derived types. Supports nested properties |
```

## `SdsStreamViewMap`

> When an SdsStreamView is added, SDS defines a plan mapping and stores it as an `SdsStreamViewMap`. The `SdsStreamViewMap` provides a detailed property-by-property definition of the mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you add an `SdsStreamView`, SDS defines a plan mapping and stores it as an `SdsStreamViewMap`. The `SdsStreamViewMap` provides a detailed property-by-property definition of the mapping.
```

| Property     | Type        | Details |
|--------------|-------------|---------|
| `SourceTypeId` | String      | Identifier of the SdsType of the SdsStream |
| `TargetTypeId` | String      | Identifier of the SdsType to convert events to |
| `Mode`         | SdsStreamViewMode | Aggregate of actions applied to the properties. `SdsStreamViewModes` are combined via binary arithmetic. |
| `SdsStreamViewMap`   | SdsStreamViewMap  | Mapping for derived types |

The available `SdsStreamViewModes` are shown in the following table.

| Name                   | Value  | Description |
|------------------------|--------|-------------|
| None                   | 0x0000 | No action   |

> | FieldAdd               | 0x0001 | Add a property matching the specified SdsTypeProperty |
> | FieldRemove            | 0x0002 | Remove the property matching the specified SdsTypeProperty |
> | FieldRename            | 0x0004 | Rename the property matching the source SdsTypeProperty to the target SdsTypeProperty |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FieldAdd               | 0x0001 | Add a property matching the specified `SdsTypeProperty` |
| FieldRemove            | 0x0002 | Remove the property matching the specified `SdsTypeProperty` |
| FieldRename            | 0x0004 | Rename the property matching the source `SdsTypeProperty` to the target `SdsTypeProperty` |
```

| FieldMove              | 0x0008 | Move the property from the location in the source to the location in the target |
| FieldConversion        | 0x0016 | Converts the source property to the target type |
| InvalidFieldConversion | 0x0032 | Cannot perform the specified mapping |

## Changing stream type

> Stream views can be used to change the type defining a stream. You cannot modify the SdsType; types are immutable. But you can map a stream from its current type to a new type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stream views can be used to change the type defining a stream. You cannot modify the `SdsType`; types are immutable. But you can map a stream from its current type to a new type.
```
